Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
from hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer on the technologist. Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number four 92. In
this episode, Scott talks with
Abby covert about information architecture.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes today. I'm talking
with Abby covert. He's an
information architect and a president
of the information architect Institute.
How are you? I'm great.
Thanks so much for having
me Scott. So I know
about software architecture. I know
about building architecture, but what
is information architecture? Well, if
you know about software architecture
and building architecture, then you're,
you're part of the way
they're already information architecture is
the way that we arrange
the parts of something to
make it more understandable as
a whole. So you might
think about that in terms
of software, it would be
deciding the way that we
divide the screens or States
or menus into a language
that is easily understandable by
our users. If you're thinking
about a book, it would
be the way that we've
divided the pages, chapters, the
indexing methodology we've chosen. So
whatever the pieces are for
the particular material that you're
working in, Where does, is
this a part of information?
Science is just like library
science Information architecture is actually
really related to a lot
of different disciplines, which I
think actually highlights how important
it is to sort of
a human newness, a library,
science being one of them,
graphic design, being another software
architecture, being another also you
see it in a kind
of fields like content strategy,
user experience. Yeah. So library
science happens to be one
of the ones that information
architecture has quite a healthy
home in. Is it like,
like I know about the
Dewey decimal system was a
big deal when I was
growing up and they would
explain that is it classification
is that subfield Classification is
a big part of information
architecture work. But I would
say that the understanding of
language Instructure in general is
sort of the, the more
zoomed out perspective on what
it is as a whole.
So it's not just the
way you classify things. It's
also the way that you
organize them in, in other
vicinity is as well from
the, the menus that you
described, the labels that you
choose. And also just the,
the object definitions that you
might go into the description
of a product or service,
You know, it's, it's funny
that you say the object
definitions, because I've always, when
I started in software, I
started in object oriented software.
And one of the first
things that they teach us
is that it's really hard
to name things, but if
you really, really put the
work in to naming them
and organizing them, well, something
will click and then things
will kind of open up
in front of you. So
sometimes we'd sit around and
try to name an object
and people would say, why
is this, why are we
doing this? This is a
waste of time. We're spending
too much time trying to
name this. And the, the
main architect would say, no,
no. If we get this
part right, then everything else
will we'll hang off of
it. Yeah. And the more
people that you get into
that room, having that conversation
about language, it turns out
the, the harder that it
is. So if you're working
in a team of one
and you're trying to define
objects, it's hard enough to
give things names, but when
you get into large corporations
and you try to define
the object names across departments
and across, you know, billing
centers and all these other
things, it turns out that
it can be quite complex.
And I do hear from
people a lot, like, Oh,
that's just a semantic argument.
And I'm like, yeah, it's
just a semantic argument. It's
like one of the most
important arguments you can have.
So yeah, it's, it's pretty
interesting to work with companies
on their information, architecture, lots
and lots of arguing. So
you said just twice, I
said just, why do people
just want to put things
in a box like that?
Is this a way of
us classifying information that we're
receiving? Oh man, I think
we could, we could go
pretty deep on philosophy at
that point. I think that
people are not necessarily comfortable
with the lack of true
objectivity in the, in the
world. I mean, we want
to believe that there is
one right way, one wrong
way. One word that is
correct for whatever we're talking
about. And often what we're
actually talking about is what
is correct in our brains.
So our, our mental models
and the language that we've
structured in our own kind
of brain affects us quite
deeply in terms of the
way that we accept other
people's version of the world.
So, yeah, I think that
it is just as an
interesting word. It's one of
the most evil words that
you can use to describe
what somebody else is doing,
especially for a living, I
think. Yeah. It's so it's
such a diminutive. I mean,
it's just, you, you've taken
your entire life's work and
now you're chatting with someone
at a cocktail party. It's
like, Oh, that's just categorizing
stuff. Thank you for, Yeah,
it's just categorizing stuff, guys.
No bigs. Now you mentioned,
I think design there for
a moment. There's a lot
of people talking about UX,
like as two letter acronyms
go, UX seems to be
the hot one and everyone,
just a lot of people
let's just be real, have
jumped into, you know, user
experience and declared themselves user
experience experts. Their qualifications might
be a design degree or
work in this field. Their
qualifications might also just be
that they're really empathetic. What
do you think that UX
has kind of captured the
imagination? Well, I, you know,
maybe hasn't as much. It's
interesting. Actually, if you go
through and look sort of
historically at the rise of
the acronym UX and the
rise of that as a
job title in general, it
has a very close relationship
with IAA. Many of the
people who have been working
in what's now called UX
for more than about seven
years used to have a
job title that was either
web designer or information architects.
And one of the, the
sort of ruptures that happened
really early in that history
was a discussion that began
about something called big IAA
versus little IAA and little
IAA is the classification of
things at the smallest level.
So, you know, deciding a
meta-tags sequence, discussing the metadata
attributes that are going to
be on a particular object,
taking an existing taxonomy and
classifying existing documents, according to
it. So very much more
in the librarianship kind of
vicinity, but big IAA was
this idea that you were
strategically thinking about language and
structure. And I think that
a lot of people in
the information architecture industry got
really into this idea of
big IAA as sort of
our future and how we
could get a seat at
the business and design tables
that were starting to set
up in, in companies and
consultancies and agencies. So over
time there was, you know,
kind of this belief set
that users were really the
differentiator that we were bringing
because other people knew how
to talk about words and
structures, but we were the
ones saying, Oh, you should,
you should be testing these
with users. You should be
doing research strategically and to
what to call things and
how to structure things. So
user experience was really very
much emergent from that school
of thought. And many of
the leaders in the UX
field actually were information architects
to start Interesting. I seem
to remember an article on
dating myself here somewhere in
the early two thousands where
a designer named Jesse James Garrett talked
about big guy in LA.
He was a user experience
person and a designer and
an IAA fans Still is.
Yeah, Jesse is great. He,
he actually gave a keynote
presentation at the information architecture
summit in 2009, which is
sort of, I guess, considered
by many, to be the
moment that we changed from
IAA to UX. And there
was definitely an, an earthquake
of movement after that people
standing up and saying, I'm
going to change the name
of academic programs. I'm gonna
change the name of my
company. I'm gonna change the
offerings that we have in
our agencies. And he's sort
of famous for saying, there's
no such thing as an
information architect or an interaction
designer. We have always been
and will always be user
experience designers. So that was,
that was the wave that
began much of what's been
going on for, you know,
the last decade And for
the techies that are listening
just as an, as an
aside and as a point
of note, Jesse James Garrett also happened
to be the individual who
coined the word Ajax to,
to some of the ways
that we do things with
JavaScript today. Yep. So you
said that that was a
change towards UX, but why
am I having you on
the show as an information
architect and why is there
an information architect Institute and
why are you an
person? Is it it, was
it a split or was
it a refinement of a
particular aspect of information architecture?
So I think that that
was about the time that
we all started to consider
the effect of generalist versus
specialist. And some of us
went off to become very
comfortable as generalists and wanted
to learn as much underneath
the user experience umbrella as
possible. So learning to do
usability tests, learning to do
interaction, design, learning, to code.
So you could build your
own interactive prototypes, kind of
the whole kitten caboodle. Some
of us, myself included have
instead decided to specialize. And
by specializing, we tend to
work on the larger projects
that are specialized in general.
So I don't work on
projects that don't have user
experience people. It's just that
the user experience, people that
I work with understand that
when it comes to semantic
arguing, they would like an
expert to come in to
facilitate that conversation. Is it
hard to sell oneself as
an expert or to even
sell the concept of something
as initially vague as information
architecture, to someone who isn't
immediately familiar with the term?
It's interesting. Cause it's, it's
simultaneously hard to explain and
impossible for strangers to not
be able to explain to
me. So if I ask
a cab driver, like, what
do you think information architecture
is? They almost always can
come to their own definition.
That's pretty darn close just
by thinking it out. Right.
But for whatever reason, I
think that there is a
lot of stigma around selling
specialty in a world of
generalism. You know, like we've
been talking a lot as
an industry about concepts like
being a design unicorn and
designers should code and, you
know, everyone should be testing.
And all of those things
I think are true in
the right context. And as
an information architect, I still
do prototype. I still do
talk to users. It's just
at a different level. My
understanding of those things is
always directly related to structure
and language, as opposed to
interfaces. Would you see people
on the, the interaction design
side go to, So to
see if I understood the
big, a little IAA debate
correctly, then little IAA, the
more narrow view is applying
concepts of information science to
web design, web application development,
things like classification and, you
know, pulling information. And then
big guy a is a
bigger, a bigger tent that
includes UX and usability. And
all of those things, as
it relates to the design,
I would say Is the
consideration strategically about what things
should be called and how
things should be structured. So
for example, if you, I
recently worked with a company
that was a midsize startup
that had recently acquired two
other midsize startups, right? So
all of a sudden they
had three languages that were
on table across the 250
people that all of a
sudden worked under this one
company name. And they had
all these applications that slowly
over time have to be
migrated towards a consistent vocabulary.
Otherwise they're going to have
all sorts of efficiency, efficiency
problems, as well as communication
problems with their, their customer
service staff, their customers, you
know, the marketing departments, everything.
So when it comes to
a task like that little
IAA would be listening to
the direction of what's been
decided and helping the team
to reclassify things on a
piece by piece basis and
saying, okay, well, this is
going to get called this.
This is going to get
called. That big idea is
having the very difficult conversations
at the top level of
an organization to get them
to even understand that a
single vocabulary is necessary and
then going through all of
the vocabularies that might exist
trying to get to okay,
what's the right way forward.
What's the directionality that we
should actually be taking as
a group. Okay. So then
with little IAA, you could
have been brought in by
some middle manager to work
on a project. And big
idea is going to have
you having a conversation with
the CIO and maybe the
CEO about why this could
be huge for the whole
company. Oh, okay. And I
remember a couple of years
ago you were having a
chat with me and selling
me on IAA before. And
what popped for me was
a story you had about
reorganizing a menu for a
large, a large food company.
Would you mind telling me
that story again? Because it
was, it all snapped together
for me that day. Sure.
Yeah. I worked for a
large fast food restaurant chain
a couple of years back.
And the big problem statement
that they had was that
even though the name of
the food that they are
most famous for is in
their name, people were asking
their staff over and over
again. What should I order
here? It had completely gotten
lost in sort of the
cruft of their menu system.
And I'm not talking about
their online menu. I'm talking
about like the paper menu
that's laminated, you know, in
the restaurant itself. And when
we looked at it, what
we found was that because
they had a focus on
that one item that item
had become kind of watered
down over time and with
franchisees and different stakeholders and
different agencies getting involved to
run things like campaigns for
different holiday seasons, et cetera,
they kind of lost their
way. So I helped them
to reduce their menu by
about 40%. And we also
reorganized it from a taxonomy
standpoint and kind of messed
with the labeling system and
the way that that users
would interact with that menu
to focus on that core
item. But then also focus
on the idea of adding
sides. And the result was
a 4% increase of sales
in the stores that implemented
that menu just in the
first year alone. So it
was a, it was a
really great case study for
me to just understand that
the information architecture work that
I do, isn't just applied
in the digital world. It's
actually quite applicable in things
like print design. And this
was like absolutely measurable. This
isn't statistically insignificant. This isn't
a small thing that corporate
w you know, when, when
this new change has been
made measurable, fundamental change in
our company, our business and
our fundamental bottom line. Yeah,
no, it was definitely covered
by places like the Atlantic
and business insider and a
couple others publish the case
study as well. I don't
have to make you feel
really great. Yeah. I wish
that I wasn't known as
the restaurant menu expert, not
to be named in the
articles, but you know, that's,
that's contract negotiation for you.
Oh, wow. So you're actually
not even mentioned in the
articles. So you're kind of
like an information architecture Ninja,
right. You just get into
the place and you do
the job and then you
fly out and no one
ever knows you. Yup. Always
behind the clipboard. Oh, that's
all right. I mean, certainly
it's unfortunate because they, I'm
sure the articles pigeonhole you.
But the, the idea though,
that you can kind of
flip big IAA switches, flip
little IAA switches and transform
an entire supply chain is
pretty, pretty significant. To be
honest, it wouldn't even be
my name that I'd be
wishing for the article to
mention it would be information
architecture in general. I did.
One of them said the
word taxonomy and I almost
fell over. So that was
pretty good. That's a word
that they've been using at
work a lot lately. And
I'm, I get a little
bit of an Inigo Montoya
moment sometimes when people use
taxonomy, you know, you keep
using that word. I don't
think the thing that means
that what you think it
means. Yeah, no taxonomies get
used a lot to mean
navigation systems on websites, which,
you know, I mean, taxonomy
is just the classification system
of something. So the manifestation
of a navigation menu could
be classified as a taxonomy,
but it's sort of like
the thought that you can
go across the street and
look at a building and
really understand it from an
architectural standpoint, you might see
the facade, you can see
what the building looks like
on the outside, but you're
not actually looking at how
it's constructed. So to say
that you can even see
a taxonomy is, is kind
of flawed. This episode of
Hansel minutes is brought to
you by Braintree code for
easy online payments. If you're
building a mobile app and
you're searching for a simple
payment solution, check out brain
tree, the brain tree v.zero
SDK makes it easy to
offer multiple mobile payment types.
So you can start accepting
PayPal, Apple pay Bitcoin, Venmo,
credit cards, and more all
with a single integration, one
small snippet of code. And
you're set up in less
than 10 minutes. If you
don't have time, you can
give them a call. They'll
even handle the integration for
you and walk you through
it. The SDK supports seven
languages, dotnet node, Java, Perl,
PHP, Python, and Ruby elegant
code clear documentation to learn
more. And for your first
$50,000 in transactions fee free,
go to brain tree payments.com/hanselman
that's Braintree payments.com/hanselman. How many?
And this might be a
wrong question, but I guess,
I suppose information architecture, there
are no wrong questions, but
how many people leap into
IAA as a career with
really no, no background, no
business doing it. They just
think that they are clever
and they talk their way
through. They talk their way
into being an information architect,
as opposed to looking at
it from the science perspective.
Interesting. Well, I definitely wouldn't
classify it as a science
and I think by your
definition, a lot of people
probably do, but I think
that there's probably a lot
of people like that in
any industry. You know, I
could ask you the same
thing about software development. Well,
I've been coasting on charm
for almost 20 years now
joined the call. I shouldn't
have, the reason I ask
is that you've got this
great article on your blog
at  dot com called.
So you want to be
an information architect and you
talk about these kind of
prototypical emails that show up
where it's like, you know,
I have this job and
it's not really working out
the way I planned. I'm
hearing about information architecture. And
that seems like a job
I should do. And you
kind of go through the
motivations for why one would
do this. And all of
them seem like great motivations,
but you tear them down
one by one. I mean,
I think that in order
to really become an information
architect, you have to be
ready. You know, back to
that restaurant example, you have
to be ready to be
behind the scenes and you
also have to be ready
to have a job where
it is your sole purpose
to make other people agree
on language and structure, which
generally means leaving your opinions
of the door and not
bringing them into the boardroom.
Even if you think that
that's going to make you
look really smart. And I
think that a lot of
people struggle with that understanding
when they first hear the
term because of, I guess
the starchitect mentality that physical
architecture has taken on where,
you know, Oh, I'm going
to, I'm going to be
the head designer on a
large building. That's what an
architect is. And in reality,
you know, I think 98%
of architects are not doing
that kind of work. They're
doing the work that no
one ever knows about. And
it's really important work because
it's how the structures we
dwell in don't fall on
our heads, you know, but
it's not the most glamorous
of, of circumstances. So I
do feel the need to
kind of tell people that
when they email me, if
that's your motivation to like
make more money and be
really well known, then like
you're barking up the wrong
tree, for sure. Interesting. So
it isn't as much coming
in and saying, all right,
I'm here, habeas here. And
I have a plan. And
then you impose that plan.
You really are coming there.
There's a amount of consensus
building. Yeah. Yeah, no. And
agreement is the medium that
I work in the most
because you know, back to
the idea that there is
no one right way. I
mean, if you look at
something as simple as a
grocery store website classifying their
produce, right? We could have
an argument for 12 minutes
about how Linnaean taxonomy puts
tomatoes and zucchinis as fruit,
but we're not going to
classify them that way on
our grocery store website, because
nobody would be able to
find the dang things. So
I find that having, you
know, the smarts to understand
what you think you understand
about the world is actually
not enough when it comes
to information architecture, you need
to be the one that's
willing to set all that
aside and listen to people's
mental models, get voiced, and
then be the one that
can compare those and draw
out the distinctions and say,
okay, when you say this
word, this person over here
does not hear the same
thing that you're hearing. They
hear this completely different concept.
So let's talk it out.
And I, I happened to
be good at, at that
particular thing, That must be
really difficult for people who
are large businesses. I imagine
you going into a said
food place with the menu,
talking to some older, you
know, I've been in this
business for 50 years and
this is how we've always
done it type of an
individual. Who's now being told
that the way that they
clap, they categorize things isn't
working and here's the science
behind it. You don't know
anything about their business, right?
They grew up in their
business, maybe they're their mom
and dad gave them the
business and then you have
to come together. And then
at the end, everyone has
to agree and be happy.
Yeah, that's it, that's the
most difficult part of my
job I would say, is,
is dealing with the emotions
behind people letting go of
their one way of doing
things and moving towards a
new way. It seems really
simple, but it's actually not
people go through like all
of the defined stages of
grief when it comes to
letting go of their way
of organizing things in my
experience, In, in your, so
you want to be an
information architect blog, one of
your motivations says you want
to be an information architect
because you're in love with
the idea of spreading clarity
and understanding. Somehow I somehow
just thought that you would
just kind of like, ah,
I'm here. Oh, I'm such
a hippie sometimes. Yeah, totally.
No, but, but, but you,
you know, it's not, it's
not quite that glamorous. No,
it's not. I mean, spreading
clarity on understanding. I don't
think I've ever been glamorous
for any person who's ever
tried it, you know, it's
a pretty thankless job, but
it's also really necessary. I
mean, I think that having
bold dreams for what one
can accomplish in the world
is important and mine would
be that I want to
make the world a clearer
place, but I also understand
that I'm only ever going
to be a very small
part of doing that. So
that's why I spend so
much time talking to other
people about information architecture. So
if we have names for
these things, we can learn
more about them. And I
think that I is one
of those things that a
lot of people don't have
a name for. They're sorta
like, well, it's really good
looking. And it meets all
of our business goals and
it's still not really doing
the thing it's supposed to
do. It still doesn't make
sense to our users. And
I think that with words
we can have conversations about,
about things like that. So
you modestly said that you
would be a small part
of that and you can't
really make the world a
better place, but you do
have a thing you're working
on right now called world
I a day that people
can see at  dot
org A day has been
an amazing experience for me
to understand. There are a
ton of people in this
world that really do believe
in those words and want
to further them in their
local communities. So world AIDS
day is sponsored by the
information architecture Institute, which I'm
currently the president of. And
we started world AIDS day
five years ago, at which
point we had 14 locations
in 14 countries. Now in
2016, we were looking at
73 locations in 39 countries
across six continents. So all
we got left now is
Antarctica. So if there's any
information architect, enthusiasts listening from
Antarctica, please let me know.
I would love to talk
to you about 2017. Yeah.
I'm looking at this here,
a call for cities, the
one that's now closed. And
anytime I hear that, there's
something going on. I look
for Portland where I live
and I'm like, well, surely
there won't be a day
in Portland and then boom,
there Portland's GAF. Portland's been
great. We've had one in
Portland for the last four
years. It's one of our
most beloved events. Oh, okay.
Well then Portland is, as
far as I'm concerned, is,
is the central location of
this event. Yeah. I'm going
to check that out. And
then you've got a book
that is really got a
great title. I'm I'm, it's
called how to make sense
of any mess. Yep. As
of last November, I considered
myself an author. So that
was pretty exciting. Was it
hard as, as you've been
doing this forever, right. You've
been an information architecture architect
for a long time. Was
it hard to organize the
information in a book? Was
that like, did you just
do your job? And it
was fine. It was a
book just came together or
was it more difficult? It
was very, very difficult. Yeah.
It was probably the most
meta IAA task that I
have assigned to myself in
my career. It was a,
it definitely did not just
come together. It went through
many, many revisions. It did
not have that particular name
until pretty late in the
game. Actually, the story of
the name was that I
was avoiding the words table
of contents and the chapters
were all very actionable. You
know, we have identify the
mass state, your intent face
reality. And they were all
like steps of this process.
And so when I was
naming the process, I named
it how to make sense
of any mess. And I
used that as the header,
instead of saying table of
contents. And I was showing
it to a good friend
of mine, Carl Collins, and he
famously ripped the cover of
the book off and was
like, this, this is the
name of the book. And
so I went with it
and I'm really glad I
did cause this it's the
kind of name that people
stop you in an airport
and ask like, what's that
book about, which I never
would have expected on a
books on something that I
was starting to consider to
be a pretty dry topic.
Yeah. A cover design definitely
matters. And, and, and I
don't mean to gush. I
don't usually gush with, with
guests, but not only is
the, the title good, but
when you flip it over
as a, as a programmer,
I like because you have
the seven steps, you have
these words in red. So
it's like, identify the mess
where identifies in red state,
your like, it's, it's systematic.
And without even opening the
book, you're like, wait a
second. This is actually like
a planned, organized this isn't
some fufu, you know, way
of thinking about the world.
This is like, here is
a way to think this
works for us. You should
get involved. It's very actionable.
It's a very verb. You
know what I mean? Thank
you very much. Yeah. I
think a big part of
information architecture is breaking the
world into nouns and verbs
and the relationship that they
have to each other. So
the, the back cover design
definitely reflects that methodology as
well. Yeah. And it's also
got a 42, five star
reviews, so you're doing pretty
well And incredibly proud to
see the movement since the
book came out. It's been
great. One of the other
things that I was surprised
as I started researching information
architecture is not only defined
people like Jesse James Garrett, who I
thought of as being a
UX person, but also a
person named Richard Saul Wurman.
Oh yeah. Ricky, he's one
of my heroes. So I
think about things like, you
know, like there's this like
legendary character who like created
and then, you know, Oh,
Ricky, I sure. I assume
you have him on speed
dial he's in your favorites.
I do not know. I
love nicknames for people. And
that is the one that
I've associated with him for
the longest. Yeah. I think
I'm Richard Saul Wurman is,
is absolutely by far number
one hero of my career.
He just has this way
of writing about things and
talking about things is no
nonsense completely to the heart
of the point. And he
really cares about making the
world clearer. And I find
that there's not a lot
of people that have that
as their sole intention. And
I, I feel like I've,
I've copied that from him
for sure. And he's been
doing IAS the, since the
early seventies. Yeah. He's actually
the one who coined the
term for the first time
at a conference for physical
architects, which is what his
background and training is in.
So he was the one
that introduced the world of
physical architecture into the world
of graphic design and using
the term information architect to
describe the people that would
wrangle these kinds of, you
know, battles of misinformation, a
book that he wrote in,
I think the late eighties,
early nineties called information anxiety
is one of my favorites.
I would definitely recommend for
anybody out there to, to
pick a copy of that
up. And for, for people
who may be listening and
thinking that we're just throwing
cool names out. I point
out not only did Jesse James Garrett
do the term Ajax, but
Richard saw a woman also
created the Ted conference. So
you may be familiar with
that if you're not familiar
with all of his other
work, That that is one
of his, his greatest calling
cards, That'd be pretty slick
to be able to do
something like that. If you
can just say, Oh yeah,
you ever heard of IAA?
Well, no. Well, what about
Ted? Oh, Ted do the
Ted. I do use that
a lot actually to lend
credibility to the term. Cause
people you would like to
ask, where did it come
from? When did it start?
I think it's really interesting
because I think a lot
of people assume that it
was invented, you know, sometime
in the late nineties because
of web design, but not.
And interestingly, if you look
at it, it's an extremely
organized website with a large
group of a large Corpus,
that one has to find
their way around and I've
never had any problem finding
my way around there. Yep.
The other thing that I
wanted to ask you about
is that you've got a,
on your blog on Abby
DIA. There was this one
post, I think it was
earlier this year, that was
called, this is the work.
That's one of my favorites.
I wrote that from my
sister. Okay. I'm glad would
you, would you share that
with us share what that's
about with, with, with me?
I think that especially when
you get into the academic
environment, that idea of right
and wrong and correct and
incorrect and there being one
right way really comes pretty
clear. I mean, students, especially
students who are trying to
work their way through an
immense amount of work in
a graduate degree program in
their final year, which is
what my job is, is
to take them through that
final semester of their final
year. They can get really
overwhelmed with this idea of
having conversations about semantics and
structure with themselves. They can
think that it's a waste
of time. They can think
that they're kind of circling
the bowl a little bit
more than they should be.
But I find that time
and time again, what's really
happening is procrastination and distraction
from getting real about those
topics is what is holding
them back. So I encourage
my students to sit down
and put away the computer,
get out a piece of
paper and think about the
words. And that can be
really difficult for them to
understand that like that's not,
that's not an act of
post-it theater, right? That's not
like a design theatrical exercise
that we're having you do.
So you look like a
designer. It's actually where the
work happens. The work does
not happen in making, you
know, wire frames for the
final thing that some of
the work. But if you
don't do that upfront piece
to understand what it is
you're making before you decide
how to make it, you
can get yourself into a
pretty big, I think that's
a really good reminder to
everyone. I mean, I have
been over the last 20
years in front of giant
whiteboards with a stack of
post it notes on a
problem and a room full
of people and had an,
a number of instances, them
say that that wasn't useful
what we were doing right
there. That's when I that's,
when I felt the most
useful, like I like we're
really getting into it right
now. Like we've been, you
know, like, I like what
you said, post it, note
theater, although that's going to
make me wonder if I'm
really doing it right in
the future, but it does
feel like the work, like,
I feel like that's like,
aren't we all agreeing, aren't
we moving towards agreement? Are
we getting in that general
direction right now? Well, a
lot of times I think
when those objections come up,
it's because their mental model
of whatever's being discussed is
so far off from the
model being drawn on the
post it notes or on
the whiteboard that they're not
yet comfortable with this idea
that they might not be
part of the solution. They
might be part of the
problem. So you may Be,
you may have touched on
the moment where they felt
like they were being left
behind. Exactly. Like going back
to that person who has
had this, the business, and
this is the way we've
already always done things. I
mean, that's the person who
stands up in the meeting
when I'm at the whiteboard
myself. And it's like, I
don't know why we're wasting
our time on this particular
step when we could just
be going back to our
desk and doing our job,
we hired you. You're the
expert, figure it out. And
I'm like, okay, that's, that's
not, that's not what's happening
right here. Like what we're
working on is agreement. We're
not working on, you know,
my drawing skills at this
white board. Like that's counter
to the point. The best
part about that blog post
is the way you talk
about what words do you
not want used to describe
your work? You basically force
people to lean in and
face the uncomfortable there is
criticism about the work, or
people may disagree with your
work. So let's just talk
about that right now. Like
what are the words that
you don't want people to
say? Yeah. And sometimes those
are things that can be
avoided. Other times you struggled
to come up with what
those words are, and that
tells you that maybe the
fear is much bigger in
your head than it is
in reality. And I think
that getting people to have
conversations in simple terms like
adjectives, you know, it's just
like, let's just put out
some adjectives right now. What
would be the adjectives you'd
be proud for your work
to be described as, and
then what are the opposites
of those things and does
the opposite make you less
proud? Or is it something
that you should actually just
accommodate for? I've had students
have a lot of breakthroughs
through activities like that. Well,
I really appreciate you chatting
with me today. Thanks so
much for having me. This
was great. So people can
check out Abby at a,
B, B, Y , and
you can look into her
book and her blog and
her talks and videos and
all things, information architecture, and
also check out the information
architecture Institute and go and
Google for world I a
day. It's a world
dot org. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week. .